In this video, you will learn
to describe the purpose
of frameworks,
baselines, and best practices in
an effective
cybersecurity strategy.
The last part of the session is
frameworks and their purposes.
We're going to talk
about frameworks,
we're going to talk
about best practices.
Here are just a good
differentiation
between best practices,
baseline, frameworks,
normative, and compliance.
So in the organization,
we will have a lot of things,
we will have, for
example, best practices,
we will have a baseline or
we will have framework.
A good example of
framework is COBIT
or a good example
of best practices,
in some cases,
framework depends of
your business is I-T-I-L, ITIL.
So those are good things,
good controls that will improve,
enhance your IT governance,
your IT processes, your IT
policies, your IT procedures.
Those frameworks,
those baselines,
those best practices will
improve the performance
of your servers.
For example, if you go and
grab the best practices
for Microsoft
regarding the hardening of
their database server
for example,
you will have a best
Microsoft SQL Server,
you will have an improved
Microsoft SQL Server.
But that best practice,
that framework it's not
something that you
will have to have,
it's nice to have.
You will have a lot
of good practices,
you will have a lot of controls,
you will have a lot
of good things,
but if you don't
have it, that's it.
That's something that will
not necessarily
harm your business.
If you don't have guidelines from
Microsoft to implement
the servers,
if you don't have the guidelines
from Cisco to implement
the physical devices,
if you don't have
the best practices from
COBIT to improve your IP
governance in your company,
you will loose your business,
you will be part of
many kind of problem
with your regulator,
with your government.
In the other corner,
we have normative and compliance.
The difference here is you
need to implement normative,
you need to have
compliance if your business
required that.
So for example, there is
something called HIPAA.
HIPAA is normative
that will be part
of any kind of health care
company in United States.
So in your health care company,
you could have COBIT,
you could have a lot
of ITIL processes,
you could have
all the best practices from
your burn vendors
implemented in your systems,
but if you don't
comply with HIPAA,
if you missed two points,
if you missed
two processes in HIPAA,
probably you won't
operate in United States.
You will have penalties from
the US government because you are
not complying with HIPAA.
So that's the main difference
between baselines,
frameworks, and best practices,
and normative, and compliance.
So as we mentioned,
we have a lot of things, we have,
for example, as
best practices, as frameworks,
methodologies that we could
implement in our business
to improve the way
that our business fills
with technology and
we could mention,
actually, we already
mentioned a couple of those.
We could mention COBIT,
we can mention ITIL, ISOs.
Cyber Security we have
the ISOs 27,000
series, we have COSO,
we have the PMI,
the Project Management
Institute with
a lot of project
management methodologies,
we have the developer
recommendations.
As soon as you start working
with a programming languages,
which you will have a lot
of recommendations,
you will have a lot
of information
regarding the best practices
that you could follow on
your software in your systems
to avoid any kind of
security incidents,
any kind of incident
that will harm
or will destroy your software.